Document sortOptions field (#306)
kubernetes-sigs/cli-experimental: site/content/en/references/kustomize/kustomization/sortoptions/_index.md

---
title: "sortOptions"
linkTitle: "sortOptions"
type: docs

> weight: 23

Reviewer: This should be 22, and the vars page should be updated to 23 (it is supposed to be alphabetical)

description: >
    Sort the kustomize resources.
---

> The `sortOptions` field is used to sort the resources kustomize outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `sortOptions` field is used to sort the resources kustomize outputs. It is available in kustomize v5.0.0+.
```

IMPORTANT:
- Currently, this field is enforced only for the top-level kustomization.

> - This is the endorsed way to sort resources. Users should avoid using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This field is the endorsed way to sort resources.
```

the CLI flag `--reorder` and instead use `sortOptions`.

Currently, we support the following sort options:
- `legacy`

> - `fifo`

Reviewer: I suggest adding a quick summary example like this right below this line:

```yaml
kind: Kustomization
sortOptions:
  order: legacy | fifo # "legacy" is the default
```

## Legacy Sorting

> In `legacy` order, kustomize sorts resources by using two priority lists:

Reviewer: Let's add an initial sentence like:

> The "legacy" sort is the default order, and is used when the `sortOrder` field is unspecified.

- An `orderFirst` list for resources which should be first in the output.
- An `orderLast` list for resources which should be last in the output.
- Resources not on the lists are will appear in-between, sorted by their GVK.

### Example 1: Legacy Sorting with orderFirst / orderLast lists

In this example, we use the `legacy` sort order to output `Namespace` objects
first and `Deployment` objects last.

```yaml
kind: Kustomization
sortOptions:
  order: legacy
  legacySortOptions:
    orderFirst:
    - Namespace
    orderLast:
    - Deployment
```

### Example 2: Default Legacy Sorting

If you specify `legacy` sort order without any arguments for the lists,
kustomize will fall back to the lists we were using before introducing this
feature. This is useful if you want to continue using the sort order kustomize

> was using by-default before introducing this feature.

Reviewer: Instead of the last sentence, I'd say something like "Since legacy sort is the default, this is also equivalent to not specifying the field at all."

These two configs are equivalent:

```yaml
kind: Kustomization
sortOptions:
  order: legacy
```

is equivalent to:

```yaml
kind: Kustomization
sortOptions:
  order: legacy
  legacySortOptions:
    orderFirst:
    - Namespace
    - ResourceQuota
    - StorageClass
    - CustomResourceDefinition
    - ServiceAccount
    - PodSecurityPolicy
    - Role
    - ClusterRole
    - RoleBinding
    - ClusterRoleBinding
    - ConfigMap
    - Secret
    - Endpoints
    - Service
    - LimitRange
    - PriorityClass
    - PersistentVolume
    - PersistentVolumeClaim
    - Deployment
    - StatefulSet
    - CronJob
    - PodDisruptionBudget
    orderLast:
    - MutatingWebhookConfiguration
    - ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
```

> ## FIFO Sorting

Reviewer: nit: I suggest moving this section first (before the legacy section), for alphabetization and because this section is much shorter.
